<h1>DSP Emulator v0.16 by Leniad 2001-2015</h1><br>
Well, this is just another emulator... but, what's the difference? This is a pascal open source emulator using Delphi/Lazarus environment. There are not many emulators in pascal...<br>
Yes, its open source, you can compile it yourself. But you cannot use it for commercial purposes.<br>
Why pascal, and not C, C++, Java or any other language? Well, pascal it is powerful enough to handle my emulator (120fps the Spectrum driver with a Pentium CPU) and it is as good as many any other languages.<br>
Since version 0.9ß3 portability has begun to Lazarus/Free Pascal, so there is a Linux 32/64bits version available.<br>
Since version 0.14ß3 there is a Mac OSX WIP version.<br><br>
<b>1-. Emulation</b>
<hr>
- Can handle ZIP format. You can load ROMS, tapes, snapshots or disks from a ZIP files.<br>
- Needed libraries<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Windows<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;+ The library 'SDL2.DLL' is essential. You can download it from the same website emulator or the official website 'www.libsdl.org'. If not present the emulator warns and can not start<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;+ The library 'CAPSImg.dll' is optional and it's needed to open disk images IPF. (Not working)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Linux and OSX<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;+ The libraries 'SDL2' and 'SDL2 Mixer' are needed, if cannot be loaded the emulator warns and can not start the emulation. Each OS has its own installation<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;+ The libraries 'CAPSImg' (IPF images) and 'Zlib' (Snapshots) are optional, emulation can start without them, but there are features that are not available if can not be found<br>
The emulator includes (not in WIP or beta versions) inside the ZIP the ROMS for Spectrum 48K/128K/+3 (and variants), Amstrad CPC 464/664/6128 and Coleco<br>
IS NOT ALLOWED DISTRIBUTE THIS EMULATOR WITH COPYRIGHTED ROMS<br><br>
<b>1.1-. Keys</b>
<hr>
-General Keys:<br><pre>
    F2 --> Full speed/Normal Speed
    F3 --> Reset machine
    F6 --> Full screen
    F7  --> Save quick Snapshot 1
    F8  --> Save quick Snapshot 2
    F9  --> Load quick Snapshot 1
    F10 --> Load quick Snapshot 2
    F11 --> Changes emulation speed from 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%</pre><br>
Since 0.14ß2 arcade drivers can save/load two quick snapshots<br>
Since 0.15ß1 'Full Screen' works again<br>
- Keys for both players are redefinable, and you can select an external joystick for any player and up to 6 buttons per player<br>
By default keys are:<br><pre>
    Player 1 Up       --> Key 'Cursor UP'
    Player 1 Down     --> Key 'Cursor DOWN'
    Player 1 Left     --> Key 'Cursor LEFT'
    Player 1 Right    --> Key 'Cursor RIGHT'
    Player 1 Button 1 --> Key 'LEFT CONTROL'
    Player 1 Button 2 --> Key 'LEFT ALT'
    Start player 1    --> Key '1'
    Start player 2    --> Key '2'
    Insert coin 1     --> Key '5'
    Insert Coin 2     --> Key '6'</pre><br>
Any other control is not defined. You can redefine it in the main configuration menu.<br>
- Spectrum/Amstrad basic keys:<br><pre>
    F1 --> Play/Stop tape
    F4 --> Save snapshot
    F5 --> Remove Disk</pre><br>
<b>1.2-. Language Files</b>
<hr>
DSP is by default in English, if you want to change it using 'File -> Language' or click the Settings button.<br>
You can select 'Castellano', 'Catalan', 'English', 'German', 'French', 'Brazilian' or 'Italian'.<br>
If the language files are not present, you receive a warning and the emulator will be in Spanish and you can not change the language.<br><br>
<b>1.3-. Configuration</b>
<hr>
In the main screen of the emulator you can press some buttons<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Reset/Start/Pause emulation<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Fastest/Slow emulation<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Configure DSP: you can configure some options<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Select the main language<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Audio quality: 11025Khz, 22050Khz, 44100Khz or 'No Sound'<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Video settings: 1x, 2x, scanlines 1x, scanlines 2x or 3x factor<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Default directories<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Redefine all keys or use external joystick<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Load last driver/use driver list<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Show or not the ROMs CRC errors<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Center or not the main screen when the driver is changed<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Configure active driver: There are systems that can be configured with more options that belongs to the driver it self (like Spectrum)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In arcade drivers, since version 0.12ß4, the dipswitches can be modified to set game options.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Show game list: Since version 0.9 there is allowed boot DSP with a list of games, which shows the games, computers and consoles available. Further information on the availability of ROMS for each system, distribution year, company, etc.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In general configuration you can choose this way of booting (show a game list), or the old way (run the last driver loaded).<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Save Pictures: Since DSP 0.2wipb5 you can save GIF files from Spectrum emulation.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Since 0.7ß2 version you can also save JPG and PNG formats from all drivers.<br><br>
<b>2-. Drivers</b><br>
<hr>
<b>2.1 Computers</b><br>
<hr>
<b>Spectrum</b><br>
<hr>
You can configure<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- ROMS: You can change Spectrum ROM loading. Configure your favorite ROM or a stand alone file or 'ZIP' format (the name of the ROM inside the ZIP must be the same of ZIP name, for example 'SPECTRUM.ZIP' and the ROM inside the ZIP 'SPECTRUM.ROM')<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;By default the ROM files are:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Spectrum 16k/48k: 'SPECTRUM.ZIP' --> 'spectrum.rom' CRC: 0xDDEE531F<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Spectrum 128k: 'SPEC128.ZIP' --> '128-0.rom' CRC: 0xE76799D2 and '128-1.rom' CRC: 0xB96A36BE<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Spectrum +2: 'PLUS2.ZIP' --> 'plus2-0.rom' CRC: 0x5D2E8C66 and 'plus2-1.rom' CRC: 0x98B1320B<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Spectrum +2A/+3: 'PLUS3.ZIP' --> 'plus3-0.rom' CRC: 0x30C9F490 , 'plus3-1.rom' CRC: 0xA7916B3F , 'plus3-2.rom' CRC: 0xC9A0B748 and 'plus3-3.rom' CRC: 0xB88FD6E3<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Border: You can choose line by line emulation, pixel by pixel emulation (slowly but more exact) or disable border emulation (fastest).<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Lens Lock: Enable/disable the Lenslok protection simulation<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Spectrum 48K issue: Choose Spectrum issue 2 or 3<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Joystick: Joystick is emulated with the redefinable keys or external joystick<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You can choose joystick type<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Kempston<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Cursor<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Sinclair 1<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Sinclair 2<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Gunstick/Lightgun: The mouse is used as Gunstick, and left button is used as fire<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- AMX Mouse/Kempston Mouse: Use the mouse and the buttons<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- ULA+: Enable/disable ULA+ extended colors. Supported since 0.9ß3 version<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- AY8912 sound: Set the type of sound channels. Supports mono, stereo ABC channels and stereo ACB channels<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Tape loading sound: Enable/disable the sound of the tape when loading<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Speaker filter: Enable/disable filter to reduce the noise in speaker emulation.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Speaker oversample: Quality of speaker emulation.<br>
Other features<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Keyboard: Fully working keyboard emulation, and LShift and LControl working as Capshift and SimbolShift.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Virtual Tapes: Can load ZIP, TAP, TZX, PZX, WAV and CSW. Fully working spectrum load schemes (bleepload, alkatraz, original rom...). <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;With the mouse you can move inside virtual tape and select the start position. Tape begin to play when detects - LOAD "" - and stop when reaches the final.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If inside the ZIP file there is a ROM file, emulator load first ROM file and then loads then virtual tape.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Also, if inside the ZIP is a .SCR image, it's used as a preview.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Snapshots: you can load Z80, DSP, SNA, SZX, ZX and SP. And you can save in SZX, Z80, DSP and SNA format.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Audio: Spectrum beeper and in modern Spectrum revisions there is a AY-8912.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Floppy disk: Emulated all NEC-765 functions but write operations. Supports DSK format and 'extended' DSK.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- To do:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Contented memory is not working correctly at 100%.<br><br>
<b>Amstrad CPC 464,664 y 6128</b><br>
<hr>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- ROMS - By default the files are:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-CPC-464: 'CPC464.ZIP' --> 'cpc464.rom' CRC: 0x40852F25<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-CPC-664: 'CPC664.ZIP' --> 'cpc664.rom' CRC: 0x9AB5A036 and 'amsdos.rom' CRC: 0x1FE22ECD<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-CPC-6128: 'CPC6128.ZIP' --> 'cpc6128.rom' CRC: 0x9E827FE1 and 'amsdos.rom' CRC: 0x1FE22ECD<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Keyboard: Mapped the keys for each of the CPC. To press the '|' press left shift key and '><' next to the Z.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Emulation of pressing keys 'F1' to 'F10' you must press right Shift at the same time.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Joystick: Emulated with the redefinable keys or external joystick.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Virtual Tape: you can load ZIP, CDT, WAV and CSW. Are working the classical loading squemes (bleepload, alkatraz, SpeedLock ...). Use the mouse to move inside the virtual tape and select the starting position.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Sound: All version have the AY-8912 chip<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Floppy disk: Emulated the functions of the NEC-765, just missing writing functions. Supports the format 'DSK' and the 'extended' DSK formats.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Snapshots: Support load/save 'SNA' format<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- To do<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Some disk protections are not working (a few left)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Some video effect are missing (M6845 chip)<br><br>
<b>2.2 Consoles</b><br>
<hr>
<b>NES</b><br>
<hr>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Cartridge: Supports '.nes' ROM format, compressed in ZIP format or not.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Keys: Use the redefined keys or external joystick<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'SELECT' uses coin 1 (by default is mapped as key '5')<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'START' uses start player 1 (by default is mapped as the '1' key)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Sound: Support sound, only remains DPCM<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Mappers: Supports 0,1,2,3,4,7,9,12,66,67 (partial),68,71,87,93,94,180 and 185<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- To Do:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Snapshots<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Add more mappers<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Video Timings<br><br>
<b>GameBoy/Gameboy Color</b><br>
<hr>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- ROM: Not required, but if present are loaded and run as the original console.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The default ROMs names are:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-GameBoy: 'GAMEBOY.ZIP' --> 'dmg_boot.bin' CRC: 0x59C8598E<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-GameBoy Color: 'GBCOLOR.ZIP' --> 'gbc_boot.1' CRC: 0x779EA374 and 'gbc_boot.2' CRC: 0xF741807D<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Keys: Use the redefined keys or the external joystick<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'SELECT' uses coin 1 (by default is mapped as key '5')<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'START' uses start player 1 (by default is mapped as the '1' key)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Cartridges: Supports cartridges '.gb' and '.gbc', compressed or not<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Mappers supported are MBC0, MBC1 and MBC5<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- To do:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Snapshots<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Audio problems, do not work fine with high frequencies<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Video Timings<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Add more mappers<br><br>
<b>ColecoVision</b><br>
<hr>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- ROM: The ROM is needed for emulation<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ROM file name is:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Coleco: 'COLECO.ZIP' --> 'coleco.rom' CRC: 0x3AA93EF3<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Keys: Joystick is emulated with the redefinable keys or external joystick (the secondary joystick does not have keys assigned). Does not support (still) the special joysticks.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The numbers on the keyboard from '1' to '0' emulate the number keys<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Keys 'Q' and 'W' emulate the keys '*' and '#'<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Cartridges: It supports the standard game cartridges (not expansion cartridges) with 'ROM' and 'COL' file extension compressed or not<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Snapshot: Records snapshots compressed with its own format. Also includes the ROM cartridge loaded, so they are independent and can be loaded without the ROM.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Sound: Support the sound AY-8912 chip<br><br>
<b>Chip 8/Super Chip8</b><br>
<hr>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- ROM: Does not have. It's a simulation of a pseudo CPU.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Keyboard the mapped keys are:<br><pre>
    Original    Real Keyboard
    1 2 3 A --> 1 2 3 4
    4 5 6 B --> Q W E R
    7 8 9 C --> A S D F
    D 0 E F --> Z X C V</pre>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Sound: basic sound mono supported<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Video: Supports 64x32 format from Chip8, 64x64 from Chip8 Hires and 128x64 from SuperChip8<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Files: Supports '.CH8' y '.BIN' formats<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- To do:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Snapshots<br><br>
<b>Sega Master System</b><br>
<hr>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- ROM: It is not necessary for the emulation, but is recommended.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- 'mpr-12808.ic2' --> CRC: 0x0072ED54<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Keys: Use the redefined keys or the external joystick<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'SELECT' uses coin 1 (by default is mapped as key '5')<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'START' uses start player 1 (by default is mapped as the '1' key)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Sound: Sound chip SN76496 implemented<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Cartridges: Supports cartridges '.sms' and '.sg' (partialy), compressed or not.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Video: Supports all video special SMS video modes, and all the original. Supports NTSC and PAL.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- To do<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;- Snapshots<br><br>
<b>2.3 Arcade</b><br>
<hr>
<b>2.3.1 Samples</b><hr>
Some games, given the difficulty of emulating old sound systems, uses 'samples'. Such files are portions of digitized sound, played instead of emulating the sound system.<br>
Currently only some drivers use wholly or partly this system.<br>
If you want the emulator to use the samples, put the sample files with the same name as the ROM in a folder named 'samples'.<br>
Look at the arcade systems list to know which systems use samples.<br>
<br>
<b>2.3.2 Emulated Systems</b><hr><br>
<pre>
Name                       | ROM          | Completed  | Notes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Phoenix                    | PHOENIX.ZIP  |      99    | Phoenix Hardware
                                                       | Preliminary analog sound
Pleiads                    | PLEAIDS.ZIP  |      80    | Phoenix Hardware
                                                       | No sound
Bombjack                   | BOMBJACK.ZIP |     100    |
Pac-man                    | PACMAN.ZIP   |     100    | Pac-man Hardware
Ms. Pac-man                | MSPACMAN.ZIP |     100    | Pac-man Hardware
Mysterious Stones          | MYSTSTON.ZIP |     100    |
Frogger                    | FROGGER.ZIP  |     100    | Galaxian Hardware
Galaxian                   | GALAXIAN.ZIP |      95    | Galaxian Hardware
                                                       | Partial sound with samples
Jump Bug                   | JUMPBUG.ZIP  |     100    | Galaxian Hardware
Moon Cresta                | MOONCRST.ZIP |      90    | Galaxian Hardware
                                                       | No sound
Scramble                   | SCRAMBLE.ZIP |     100    | Galaxian Hardware
Super Cobra                | SCOBRA.ZIP   |     100    | Galaxian Hardware
Amidar                     | AMIDAR.ZIP   |     100    | Galaxian Hardware
Donkey Kong                | DKONG.ZIP    |     100    | Donkey Kong Hardware
                           |              |            | Full sound using samples
Donkey Kong Junior         | DKONGJR.ZIP  |     100    | Donkey Kong Hardware
                           |              |            | Full sound using samples
Donkey Kong 3              | DKONG3.ZIP   |     100    | Donkey Kong Hardware
Black Tiger                | BLKTIGER.ZIP |     100    |
Green Beret                | GBERET.ZIP   |     100    | Green Beret HW
Mr. Goemon                 | MRGOEMON.ZIP |     100    | Green Beret HW
Commando                   | COMMANDO.ZIP |     100    |
Ghost'n'Goblins            | GNG.ZIP      |     100    |
Mikie                      | MIKIE.ZIP    |     100    |
Shaolin's Road             | SHAOLIN.ZIP  |     100    |
Yie Ar Kung-Fu             | YIEAR.ZIP    |     100    |
Son Son                    | SONSON.ZIP   |     100    |
Asteroids                  | ASTEROID.ZIP |     100    | Analog sound and samples
Star Force                 | STARFORC.ZIP |     100    | 
Rygar                      | RYGAR.ZIP    |     100    | Tecmo Hardware
Silk Worm                  | SILKWORM.ZIP |     100    | Tecmo Hardware
Pitfall II                 | PITFALL2.ZIP |     100    | Sega System 1
Teddy Boy Blues            | TEDDYBB.ZIP  |     100    | Sega System 1
Wonder Boy                 | WBOY.ZIP     |     100    | Sega System 1
Wonder Boy in Monster Land | WBML.ZIP     |     100    | Sega System 2
Choplifter                 | CHOPLIFT.ZIP |     100    | Sega System 2
Mister Viking              | MRVIKING.ZIP |     100    | Sega System 1
Sega Ninja                 | SEGANINJ.ZIP |     100    | Sega System 1
Up'n Down                  | UPNDOWN.ZIP  |     100    | Sega System 1
Flicky                     | FLICKY.ZIP   |     100    | Sega System 1
Pooyan                     | POOYAN.ZIP   |     100    |
Jungler                    | JUNGLER.ZIP  |     100    | Rally X Hardware 
Rally X                    | RALLYX.ZIP   |     100    | Rally X Hardware
                                                       | Explosion sound uses samples
New Rally X                | NRALLYX.ZIP  |     100    | Rally X Hardware
                                                       | Explosion sound uses samples
City Connection            | CITYCON.ZIP  |     100    |
Burger Time                | BTIME.ZIP    |     100    |
Express Raider             | EXPRRAID.ZIP |     100    |
Super Basketball           | SBASKETB.ZIP |     100    |
Lady Bug                   | LADYBUG.ZIP  |     100    | Lady Bug Hardware
Snap Jack                  | SNAPJACK.ZIP |     100    | Lady Bug Hardware
Cosmic Avenger             | CAVENGER.ZIP |     100    | Lady Bug Hardware
Tehkan World Cup           | TEHKANWC.ZIP |     100    |
Popeye                     | POPEYE.ZIP   |     100    |
Psychic 5                  | PSYCHIC5.ZIP |      96    | Missing Alpha render (background and sprites) and colour intensity
Kung-Fu Master             | KUNGFUM.ZIP  |     100    | Irem M62 Hardware
Spelunker                  | SPELUNKR.ZIP |     100    | Irem M62 Hardware
Spelunker II               | SPELUNK2.ZIP |     100    | Irem M62 Hardware
Lode Runner                | LODERUN.ZIP  |     100    | Irem M62 Hardware
Lode Runner II             | LODERUN2.ZIP |     100    | Irem M62 Hardware
Terra Cresta               | TERRACRE.ZIP |     100    |
Shoot Out!                 | SHOOTOUT.ZIP |     100    |
Vigilante                  | VIGILANT.ZIP |     100    |
Jackal                     | JACKAL.ZIP   |     100    |
Bubble Bobble              | BUBLBOBL.ZIP |     100    |
Prehistoric Isle in 1930   | PREHISLE.ZIP |     100    |
Tiger Road                 | TIGEROAD.ZIP |     100    | Tiger Road Hardware
F1 Dream                   | F1DREAM.ZIP  |     100    | Tiger Road Hardware
Snow Bros                  | SNOWBROS.ZIP |     100    |
Toki                       | TOKI.ZIP     |     100    |
Contra                     | CONTRA.ZIP   |      99    | Some graphics bugs
Mappy                      | MAPPY.ZIP    |     100    | Mappy Hardware
Dig-Dug II                 | DIGDUG2.ZIP  |     100    | Mappy Hardware
Super Pacman               | SUPERPAC.ZIP |     100    | Mappy Hardware
The Tower of Druaga        | TODRUAGA.ZIP |     100    | Mappy Hardware
Motos                      | MOTOS.ZIP    |     100    | Mappy Hardware
Rastan                     | RASTAN.ZIP   |     100    |
Legendary Wings            | LWINGS.ZIP   |     100    | Legendary Wings Hardware
Section Z                  | SECTIONZ.ZIP |     100    | Legendary Wings Hardware
Trojan                     | TROJAN.ZIP   |     100    | Legendary Wings Hardware
Street Fighter             | SF.ZIP       |     100    |
Galaga                     | GALAGA.ZIP   |     100    | Galaga Hardware
DigDug                     | DIGDUG.ZIP   |     100    | Galaga Hardware
Xain'd Sleena              | XSLEENA.ZIP  |     100    |
Hard Head                  | HARDHEAD.ZIP |     100    | Suna Hardware
Hard Head 2                | HARDHED2.ZIP |      10    | Basic driver
Saboten Bombers            | SABOTENB.ZIP |     100    | NMK 16 Hardware
Bomb Jack Twin             | BJTWIN.ZIP   |     100    | NMK 16 Hardware
Knuckle Joe                | KNCLJOE.ZIP  |     100    |
Wardner                    | WARDNER.ZIP  |     100    |
Big Karnak                 | BIGKARNC.ZIP |     100    | Gaelco Hardware
Thunder Hoop               | THOOP.ZIP    |     100    | Gaelco Hardware
Squash                     | SQUASH.ZIP   |     100    | Gaelco Hardware
Biomechanical Toy          | BIOMTOY.ZIP  |     100    | Gaelco Hardware
Exed Exes                  | EXEDEXES.ZIP |     100    |
Gun.Smoke                  | GUNSMOKE.ZIP |     100    | Gun.Smoke Hardware
1943: The Battle of Midway | 1943.ZIP     |     100    | Gun.Smoke Hardware
1943 Kai: Midway Kaisen    | 1943KAI.ZIP  |     100    | Gun.Smoke Hardware
1942                       | 1942.ZIP     |     100    |
Jail Break                 | JAILBREK.ZIP |     100    |
Circus Charlie             | CIRCUSC.ZIP  |     100    |
Iron Horse                 | IRONHORS.ZIP |     100    |
R-Type                     | RTYPE.ZIP    |      95    | Irem M72 Hardware
Hammerin' Harry            | HHARRY.ZIP   |      95    | Irem M72 Hardware
R-Type 2                   | RTYPE2.ZIP   |      95    | Irem M72 Hardware
Break Thru                 | BRKTHRU.ZIP  |     100    | Break Thru Hardware
Darwin 4078                | DARWIN.ZIP   |     100    | Break Thru Hardware
Super Real Darwin          | SRDARWIN.ZIP |     100    |
Double Dragon              | DDRAGON.ZIP  |     100    | Double Dragon Hardware
Double Dragon II -         | 
  The Revenge              | DDRAGON2.ZIP |     100    | Double Dragon Hardware
Mr. Do!                    | MRDO.ZIP     |     100    |
The Glob                   | THEGLOB.ZIP  |     100    | Epos Hardware
Super Glob                 | SUPRGLOB.ZIP |     100    | Epos Hardware
Tiger Heli                 | TIGERH.ZIP   |     100    | Slap Fight Hardware
Slap Fight                 | SLAPFIGH.ZIP |     100    | Slap Fight Hardware
The Legend of Kage         | LKAGE.ZIP    |     100    |
Cabal                      | CABAL.ZIP    |     100    |
Ghouls and Ghosts          | GHOULS.ZIP   |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
Final Fight                | FFIGHT.ZIP   |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
The King of Dragons        | KOD.ZIP      |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
                                                       | Missing third player controls
Street Fighter II          |
   The World Warrior       | SF2.ZIP      |      95    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
                                                       | Missing some controls and scroll row
Strider                    | STRIDER.ZIP  |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
Three Wonders              | 3WONDERS.ZIP |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
Captain Commando           | CCOMANDO.ZIP |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
Knights of the Round       | KNIGHTS.ZIP  |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
Street Fighter II'         |
   Champion Edition        | SF2CE.ZIP    |      95    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
                                                       | Missing some controls and scroll row
Cadillacs and Dinosaurs    | DINO.ZIP     |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
The Punisher               | PUNISHER.ZIP |     100    | Capcom Play System 1 - CPS1
Shinobi                    | SHINOBI.ZIP  |      95    | Sega System 16A
                                                       | Missing PCM Sound
Alex Kidd                  | ALEXKIDD.ZIP |      95    | Sega System 16A
                                                       | Missing PCM Sound
Fantasy Zone               | FANTZONE.ZIP |      95    | Sega System 16A
                                                       | Missing PCM Sound
Alien Syndrome             | ALIENSYN.ZIP |      95    | Sega System 16A
                                                       | Falta sonido PCM
Wonder Boy III             | WB3.ZIP      |      95    | Sega System 16A
                                                       | Falta sonido PCM
Time Pilot '84             | TP84.ZIP     |      99    | Missing RC filters
Tutankham                  | TUTANKHM.ZIP |     100    |
Pang                       | PANG.ZIP     |      95    | Missing YM2413
Super Pang                 | SPANG.ZIP    |      95    | Missing YM2413
Ninja Kid II               | NINJAKD2.ZIP |      95    | UPL Hardware
                                                       | No PCM sound
Ark Area                   | ARKAREA.ZIP  |     100    | UPL Hardware
Mutant Night               | MNIGHT.ZIP   |     100    | UPL Hardware
Sky Kid                    | SKYKID.ZIP   |     100    | Sky Kid Hardware
Dragon Buster              | DRGNBSTR.ZIP |     100    | Sky Kid Hardware
Rolling Thunder            | RTHUNDER.ZIP |     100    | Namco System 86
Hopping Mappy              | HOPMAPPY.ZIP |     100    | Namco System 86
Sky Kid Deluxe             | SKYKIDDX.ZIP |     100    | Namco System 86
Roc'n Rope                 | ROCNROPE.ZIP |     100    |
Repulse                    | REPULSE.ZIP  |     100    |
The NewZealand Story       | TNZS.ZIP     |     100    | The NewZealand Story Hardware
Insector X                 | INSECTX.ZIP  |     100    | The NewZealand Story Hardware
Pacland                    | PACLAND.ZIP  |     100    |
Mario Bros.                | MARIO.ZIP    |     100    | Full sound using samples
Solomon Key                | SOLOMON.ZIP  |     100    |
Combat School              | COMBATSC.ZIP |      95    | Minimal graphics problems
Heavy Unit                 | HVYUNIT.ZIP  |     100    |
P.O.W. - Prisoners of War  | POW.ZIP      |     100    | SNK 68K Hardware
Street Smart               | STREETSM.ZIP |     100    | SNK 68K Hardware
Ikari III - The Rescue     | IKARI3.ZIP   |     100    | SNK 68K Hardware
Search and Rescue          | SEARCHAR.ZIP |     100    | SNK 68K Hardware
P47 - Phantom Fighter      | P47.ZIP      |     100    | Jaleco Megasystem
Rodland                    | RODLAND.ZIP  |     100    | Jaleco Megasystem
Saint Dragon               | STDRAGON.ZIP |     100    | Jaleco Megasystem
Time Pilot                 | TIMEPLT.ZIP  |     100    |
Pengo                      | PENGO.ZIP    |     100    |
Twin Cobra                 | TWINCOBR.ZIP |     100    | Twin Cobra Hardware
Flying Shark               | FSHARK.ZIP   |     100    | Twin Cobra Hardware
Jr. Pac-Man                | JRPACMAN.ZIP |     100    |
Robocop                    | ROBOCOP.ZIP  |     100    | Deco0 Hardware
Baddudes vs. DragonNinja   | BADDUDES.ZIP |     100    | Deco0 Hardware
Hippodrome                 | HIPPODRM.ZIP |     100    | Deco0 Hardware
Tumble Pop                 | TUMBLEP.ZIP  |     100    |
Funky Jet                  | FUNKYJET.ZIP |     100    |
Super Burger Time          | SUPBTIME.ZIP |     100    |
Caveman Ninja              | CNINJA.ZIP   |     100    | Caveman Ninja Hardware
Robocop 2                  | ROBOCOP2.ZIP |      95    | Caveman Ninja Hardware
                                                       | Some graphics problems
Diet Go Go                 | DIETGO.ZIP   |     100    |
Act-Fancer Cybernetick     | 
    Hyper Weapon           | ACTFANCR.ZIP |     100    |
Arabian                    | ARABIAN.ZIP  |     100    |
Pirate Ship Higemaru       | HIGEMARU.ZIP |     100    |
Bagman                     | BAGMAN.ZIP   |      95    | Bagman Hardware
                                                       | Missing TSM 5110 sound
Super Bagman               | SBAGMAN.ZIP  |      95    | Bagman Hardware
                                                       | Missing TSM 5110 sound
Congo Bongo                | CONGO.ZIP    |     100    | Zaxxon Hardware
Zaxxon                     | ZAXXON.ZIP   |     100    | Zaxxon Hardware
Kangaroo                   | KANGAROO.ZIP |     100    |
Bionic Commando            | BIONICC.ZIP  |     100    |
WWF Super Stars            | WWFSSTAR.ZIP |     100    |
Rainbow Islands            | RAINBOW.ZIP  |     100    | Rainbow Islands Hardware
Rainbow Islands Extra      | RAINBOWE.ZIP |     100    | Rainbow Islands Hardware
Volfied                    | VOLFIED.ZIP  |     100    |
Operation Wolf             | OPWOLF.ZIP   |     100    | Use the mouse to move the gun cross
Outrun                     | OUTRUN.ZIP   |      10    | Basic Driver
Jungle King                | JUNGLEK.ZIP  |     100    | Taito SJ Hardware
Elevator Action            | ELEVATOR.ZIP |     100    | Taito SJ Hardware
Vulgus                     | VULGUS.ZIP   |     100    |
Double Dragon III:         |
    The Rosetta Stone      | DDRAGON3.ZIP |     100    |
Block Out                  | BLOCKUOT.ZIP |     100    |
Food Fight                 | FOODF.ZIP    |     100    |
Nemesis                    | NEMESIS.ZIP  |     100    | Nemesis HW
TwinBee                    | TWINBEE.ZIP  |      80    | Nemesis HW
                                                       | Sprites and video video problems
Pirates                    | PIRATES.ZIP  |     100    | Pirates HW
Genis Family               | GENIX.ZIP    |     100    | Pirates HW
Juno First                 | JUNOFRST.ZIP |      90    | DAC missing
Gyruss                     | GYRUSS.ZIP   |      90    | DAC missing
Free Kick                  | FREEKICK.ZIP |     100    |
Boogie Wings               | BOOGIEW.ZIP  |      20    | Basic driver
Pinball Action             | PBACTION.ZIP |     100    |
Renegade                   | RENEGADE.ZIP |     100    |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total: 202</pre>
<b>3-. Contribute/Code distribution</b><br>
<hr>
If you want to add another language, edit any file with the extension '.lng' in the 'LNG' directory, rename it with the name of the language and send it to me to add it to the next version.<br>
If you make any improvements to any driver, processor, main code, etc. or add drivers, please send the changes to me, so they can be added to the main code.<br>
If you use part of the code of the emulator for any non commercial purpose, you only need to add in the documentation/source something like 'Z80 core written by Leniad'. And please send me a email to see the written program. :-)<br><br>
<b>4-. Acknowledgments</b><br>
<hr>
- First, of course, the MAME team. Without them, this emulator never had existed, thanks to distribute the source code to help many people, people like me. (And of course the 'MAME guru' Nicola Salmoria)<br>
- Chris Cowley, author of VBSpec, from where I've pick a lot of information about Spectrum. In addition I've also got the part of the AY-3-8912 of its emulator, which is an excellent conversion that comes with MAME<br>
- Raul Gomez Sanchez author of the R80, one of the best Spectrum emulators for DOS, which use your debugger to trace errors in my emulator Z80<br>
- World of Spectrum, they have many tapes, snapshots, in addition many technical information, including the format TZX, DSK, Z80, etc.<br>
- javi[@]fsmail.net that helped me in a moment of desperation with directSound<br>
- Thanks to Michael Franzen, who sent me drivers for Pooyan, Coleco, System1, Chip8 and many others to be included in DSP<br>
- Thanks to Tom Walker, he sent me his driver CPS1 where I got and understood a lot of information<br>
- sremulador for begin the rewriting of NES driver<br>
- Thanks to Martijn from Revival Studios for the info about Chip8<br>
- And many pages from Internet, many documents ... and people who I forget, thank you all<br><br>
<b>5-. Copyright</b><br>
<hr>
- The Coleco and Pooyan has been rewrited from the originals by Michael Franzen.<br>
- The CPS1 has been rewrited from the original by Tomas Walker.<br>
- The source code for the Lensloc protection simulation comes from Simon Owen.<br>
- All the drivers, the Z80 core, M6502 core, M6809 (HD6309) core, M68000 core, M680X core, TMS-32010 core, NEC v20/v30/v33 core, LR35902 core, M6805 core, MCS51 core,Hu6280 core and MB88XX core are writed by me, Leniad.<br>
- AY-3-8912 emulator is a conversion from Chris Cowley, but the original emulator come from MAME team.<br>
- SN76496, YM2203, TMS36XX, VLM-5030, YM3812/YM3526, YM2151, i8255, OKI6295, UPD7759, Z80PIO, Z80CTC,pokey and Sega VDP emulators are a conversion writed by me from MAME original.<br>
- TMS99XX emulator have been rewrited from the original by Michael Franzen and have parts from MAME.<br>
- NEC765 emulator is a conversion writed and adapted by me, from MESS original.<br>
- GameBoy/GameBoy Color sound emulator is a conversion writed by me from MESS original.<br>
- NES sound emulator is a conversion writed by me from MAME original.<br>
All Spectrum, CPC464, CPC664 and CPC6128 roms are copyright of Amstrad<br><br>
<b>6-. Contact & Links</b><br>
<hr>
If you want to contact me to send me some feedback or anything, just use leniad2[@]hotmail.com<br>
You can download the source, official version and WIP versions from https://github.com/leniad/dsp-emulator<br>
<br>
If you want info...<br>
www.mamedev.org<br>
www.aarongiles.com<br>
www.emulatronia.com<br>
www.emulation9.com<br>
<br>
if you want spectrum tapes, snapshot, info...<br>
www.worldofspectrum.org<br>
http://trastero.speccy.org<br>
http://spa2.speccy.org<br>